Dem jkr (#899)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/theory/dem/dem.rst

.. math::
    \mathbf{n}_{ij}=\frac{\mathbf{x}_{j}-\mathbf{x}_{i}}{\left|\mathbf{x}_{j}-\mathbf{x}_{i}\right|}

> The normal overlap (:math:`\delta_n`) is the contact distance between the particles i and j. In the case of a collision between a particle and a wall, the wall is consider as j. The tangential overlap (:math:`\delta_t`) depends on the contact history and is updated during a contact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The normal overlap (:math:`\delta_n`) is the contact distance between the particles i and j. In the case of a collision between a particle and a wall, the wall is considered as j. The tangential overlap (:math:`\delta_t`) depends on the contact history and is updated during a contact.
```

Regarding the particle-wall contacts, applied models are the same than particle-particle contacts with a background triangulation and mapping with walls.

---------------------------------------------
Johnson-Kendall-Roberts force model
---------------------------------------------
The Johnson-Kendall-Roberts (JKR) force models attractive forces due to the van der Waals effects.
This model modifies the Hertz formulation by defining a larger contact path radius (:math:`\mathbf{a}`) and by taking into account a new parameter, the effective surface energy (:math:`\mathbf{\gamma}_{e}`).
The model is defined by the following equation.

.. math::
    a^{3} = \frac{3 R_{e}}{4 E_{e}} \left[F_{n}^{JKR} + 3\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e}  + \sqrt{6 F_{n}^{JKR} \pi\gamma_{e}R_{e} + (3\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e})^2 }\right]

> Where :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` correspond to the normal spring force and attractive force combined and :math:`\mathbf{\gamma_{e}}` is the effective surface energy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` corresponds to the normal spring force and attractive force combined and :math:`\mathbf{\gamma_{e}}` is the effective surface energy.
```

> Note that if the effective surface energy is equal to zero, the JKR model revert to Hertz model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if the effective surface energy is equal to zero, the JKR model reverts to Hertz model.
```

> The effective surface energy can be computed like so :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The effective surface energy can be computed as:
```

.. math::
    \gamma_{e} = \gamma_{1} + \gamma_{2} - 2\gamma_{1,2}

Where :math:`\gamma_{1}` and :math:`\gamma_{2}` are the surface energy of each material (particle or wall) :math:`\gamma_{1,2}` is the interface energy which is equal to zero when both surface are coming form the same material.
In Lethe, the interface energy term is approximated using `[3] <https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-391927-4.10013-1>`_ :

.. math::
    \gamma_{1,2} \approx \left( \sqrt{\gamma_{1}} - \sqrt{\gamma_{2}}  \right)^{2}

> To compute the :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}`, the contact patch radius need to be determied. The contact patch radius can be related to the normal overlap as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compute the :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}`, the contact patch radius need to be determined. The contact patch radius can be related to the normal overlap as follows:
```

.. math::
    \delta_{n} = \frac{ a^{2} }{ R_{e} } -  \sqrt{ \frac{2 \pi \gamma_{e} a }{ Y_{e} } }

> This equation can be rewrited as a fourth order polynomial function with two complex root and two real root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This equation can be rewritten as a fourth order polynomial function with two complex roots and two real roots.
```

.. math::
    0 = a^{4} - 2R_{e}\delta_{n}a^{2} - 2\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e}^{2}a + R_{e}^{2}\delta_{n}^{2}

> Since we are always trying to solve for the same real root, a straightforward procedure, describe by Parteli et al. can be used `[4] <https://doi.org/10.1038/srep06227>`_ :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are solving for the same real root, a straightforward procedure, described by Parteli et al. can be used `[4] <https://doi.org/10.1038/srep06227>`_ :
```

.. math::
    c_{0} &= R_{e}^{2}\delta_{n}^{2} \\
    c_{1} &= 2\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e}^{2}\\
    c_{2} &= -2R_{e}\delta_{n}\\
    P &= -\frac{c_{2} }{12} - c_{0} \\
    Q &= - \frac{c_{2}^{3}}{108} + \frac{c_{0}c_{2}}{3} - \frac{c_{1}^{2}}{8} \\
    U &= \left[ -\frac{ Q }{ 2 } + \sqrt{  \frac{ Q^{2} } {4} + \frac{ P^{3} }{ 27 }  }  \right]^{ \frac{1}{3} } \\
    s &=
    \begin{cases}
    -5c_2/6 + U - \frac{P}{3U} &{if}\: P \neq 0 \\
    -5c_2/6 + Q^{\frac{1}{3}}  &{if}\: P = 0
    \end{cases}\\
    \omega &= \sqrt{c_{2} + 2 s} \\
    \lambda &= \frac{c_{1} }{2 \omega}\\
    a &= \frac{1}{2}\left(\omega + \sqrt{\omega^{2} - 4(c_{2} + s + \lambda ) } \right)

Finally, the :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` can be computed as follows:

.. math::
    F_{n}^{JKR} = \frac{4 Y_{e} a^{3}}{3 R_{e}} - \sqrt{8 \pi \gamma_{e} Y_{e} a^{3} }

> The normal damping, tangential damping and tangential spring constants still need to be compute using the same procedure as the nonlinear model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The normal damping, tangential damping and tangential spring constants need to be computed using the same procedure as the nonlinear model.
```

Regarding the particle-wall contacts, applied models are the same than particle-particle contacts with a background triangulation and mapping with walls.

---------------------------------------------
Johnson-Kendall-Roberts force model
---------------------------------------------

> The Johnson-Kendall-Roberts (JKR) force model enable the modelisation of attractive forces due to the van der Waals effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Johnson-Kendall-Roberts (JKR) force models attractive forces due to van der Waals effects.
```

This model modifies the Hertz formulation by defining a larger contact path radius (:math:`\mathbf{a}`) and by taking into account a new parameter, the effective surface energy (:math:`\mathbf{\gamma}_{e}`).

> The model is define by the following equation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model is defined by the following equation:
```

.. math::
    a^{3} = \frac{3 R_{e}}{4 E_{e}} \left[F_{n}^{JKR} + 3\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e}  + \sqrt{6 F_{n}^{JKR} \pi\gamma_{e}R_{e} + (3\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e})^2 }\right]

> Where :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` correspond to the normal spring force and attractive force combine and :math:`\mathbf{\gamma_{e}}` is the effective surface energy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` correspond to the normal spring force and attractive force combined and :math:`\mathbf{\gamma_{e}}` is the effective surface energy.
```

> Note that if the effective surface energy is equal to zero, the JKR model goes back the Hertz definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if the effective surface energy is equal to zero, the JKR model reverts to Hertz model.
```

The effective surface energy can be computed like so :

.. math::
    \gamma_{e} = \gamma_{1} + \gamma_{2} - 2\gamma_{1,2}

Where :math:`\gamma_{1}` and :math:`\gamma_{2}` are the surface energy of each material (particle or wall) :math:`\gamma_{1,2}` is the interface energy which is equal to zero when both surface are coming form the same material.

> In Lethe, the interface energy term is approximated using : `[3] <https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-391927-4.10013-1>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Lethe, the interface energy term is approximated using  `[3] <https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-391927-4.10013-1>`_ :
```

.. math::
    \gamma_{1,2} \approx \left( \sqrt{\gamma_{1}} - \sqrt{\gamma_{2}}  \right)^{2}

To compute the :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}`, the contact patch radius need to be determied. The contact patch radius can be related to the normal overlap as follow:

.. math::
    \delta_{n} = \frac{ a^{2} }{ R_{e} } -  \sqrt{ \frac{2 \pi \gamma_{e} a }{ Y_{e} } }

> This equation can be rewrited as a fourth order polynomial function with two imaginary root and two real root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This equation can be rewrited as a fourth order polynomial function with two complex root and two real root.
```

.. math::
    0 = a^{4} - 2R_{e}\delta_{n}a^{2} - 2\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e}^{2}a + R_{e}^{2}\delta_{n}^{2}

> Since we are always trying to solve for the same real root, a straightforward procedure, describe by Parteli et al. can be use. `[4] <https://doi.org/10.1038/srep06227>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are always trying to solve for the same real root, a straightforward procedure, describe by Parteli et al. can be used `[4] <https://doi.org/10.1038/srep06227>`_ :
```

> The procedure goes as follow :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. math::
    c_{0} &= R_{e}^{2}\delta_{n}^{2} \\
    c_{1} &= 2\pi\gamma_{e}R_{e}^{2}\\
    c_{2} &= -2R_{e}\delta_{n}\\
    P &= -\frac{c_{2} }{12} - c_{0} \\
    Q &= - \frac{c_{2}^{3}}{108} + \frac{c_{0}c_{2}}{3} - \frac{c_{1}^{2}}{8} \\
    U &= \left[ -\frac{ Q }{ 2 } + \sqrt{  \frac{ Q^{2} } {4} + \frac{ P^{3} }{ 27 }  }  \right]^{ \frac{1}{3} } \\
    s &=
    \begin{cases}
    -5c_2/6 + U - \frac{P}{3U} &{if}\: P \neq 0 \\
    -5c_2/6 + Q^{\frac{1}{3}}  &{if}\: P = 0
    \end{cases}\\
    \omega &= \sqrt{c_{2} + 2 s} \\
    \lambda &= \frac{c_{1} }{2 \omega}\\
    a &= \frac{1}{2}\left(\omega + \sqrt{\omega^{2} - 4(c_{2} + s + \lambda ) } \right)

> Finally, the :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` can be compute as followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the :math:`\mathbf{F_{n}^{JKR}}` can be computed as follows:
```
